Ryan (Sales): Hey Marcus, good to, uh, see you again. I've got Priya from our Solutions Engineering team joining as well today if that's okay.
Marcus (Client): Sure, the more the merrier. I also have our CFO, Linda, on the call since we're getting into, um, the commercial side.
Linda (CFO): Hi Ryan, hi Priya. I'll be direct, I've sat through a lot of these pitches. I want to understand, like, what this actually costs and whether it's worth it.
Ryan (Sales): I completely respect that Linda, and I want to, uh, give you a straight answer. Can I ask first, what does your current analytics and reporting setup cost you annually across tools and people?
Linda (CFO): Honestly, um, we haven't fully added it up. We have Tableau at about 40 thousand a year, our legacy BI tool which is on a maintenance contract at around 15 thousand, and Salesforce is separate.
Marcus (Client): And we've got two analysts spending, like, I'd estimate a third of their time just doing manual reporting that should be automated.
Ryan (Sales): Okay so that's at least 55 thousand in tool costs. And if those two analysts are at, um, let's say 70 thousand fully loaded each, a third of their time is roughly 46 thousand in labour tied up in reconciliation.
Linda (CFO): That math is, uh, roughly right. So about a hundred thousand a year in current state.
Ryan (Sales): Right. And you'd replace Tableau, the legacy BI tool, and the manual processes with NovaPulse. So it's not an additional cost, it's a, like, consolidation play.
Marcus (Client): Okay, so what does NovaPulse actually cost for us? We're, um, about 220 users who'd need access.
Ryan (Sales): For 220 users on the Business plan on annual billing, you're looking at 45 dollars per user per month. That's, uh, 45 times 220 times 12, which comes to 118,800 dollars a year.
Linda (CFO): So that's actually more than what we're currently spending if we include just the tool costs of 55 thousand.
Ryan (Sales): I understand why it looks that way on a pure licence line comparison, Linda. But the 55 thousand in tool costs doesn't include the 46 thousand in analyst labour or, like, the cost of slow decisions from overnight dashboards.
Ryan (Sales): Our 2024 customer study across 85 customers showed an average 62 percent reduction in manual reporting time. For your two analysts that's about, um, recovering 30 hours a week of productive capacity.
Linda (CFO): Okay that's a fair reframe. But I need more than, uh, industry averages. Do you have a customer in retail I can speak to?
Ryan (Sales): We do. FreshMart Retail Group, a 320-store grocery chain. They deployed NovaPulse and achieved 62 percent reduction in manual reporting, an 18 percent reduction in stockouts, and, uh, 1.2 million dollars in annual operational savings. I can arrange a reference call.
Linda (CFO): A grocery chain is pretty relevant to us. I'd want to speak to their, um, head of analytics or finance, not just a marketing contact.
Ryan (Sales): Of course. I'll connect you directly with their VP of Analytics. They're very open about their experience, both the good and the, like, early challenges.
Marcus (Client): What's the ROI timeline? Like, how long before we'd actually see payback?
Ryan (Sales): The median time to positive ROI across our customers is 11 weeks. So within your first quarter you'd typically be, um, in the black on the investment based on the labour savings alone.
Linda (CFO): That's a strong claim. What's the average ROI at six months?
Ryan (Sales): 218 percent, based on the customer study I mentioned. Value from labour savings, faster decision making, and, uh, CRM integration reducing data entry errors by about 73 percent on average.
Linda (CFO): Okay, I'm not dismissing that but I want to understand the methodology. How was that calculated?
Ryan (Sales): The methodology is: value delivered minus total platform cost, divided by total platform cost, over six months. Value delivered includes quantified labour savings, revenue uplift from faster decisions, and error reduction. Each customer provided their own data and it was, um, validated against system logs where possible.
Linda (CFO): Fair enough. Now, we've also had a vendor come in recently, a company called DataViz Pro. How do you compare?
Ryan (Sales): I know DataViz Pro well. Honestly, they do some things well. But there are a few areas where the, like, comparison is quite stark in our favour.
Ryan (Sales): On chart library, we have 60 plus types including geospatial heat maps and network graphs. DataViz Pro has 35, with no native geospatial support.
Ryan (Sales): On real-time refresh, we update in under two seconds via WebSocket. DataViz Pro's minimum refresh interval is 30 seconds, which for operational retail decisions is, um, a meaningful lag.
Marcus (Client): That two seconds versus 30 seconds difference is actually significant for us. We do intraday promotions and need, like, near real-time sales visibility.
Ryan (Sales): Exactly, and on the security side we hold SOC 2 Type II certification. DataViz Pro only holds SOC 2 Type I, which is a point-in-time assessment rather than, uh, a continuous audit over months.
Linda (CFO): Our security team will care about that distinction. What's the actual difference in plain English?
Ryan (Sales): Type I says the controls were designed correctly at one moment in time. Type II says those controls were actually operating and effective continuously over a 6 to 12 month period. It's the, um, difference between a blueprint and a building inspection.
Linda (CFO): That's a good analogy. Okay, is there anything DataViz Pro does better than you?
Ryan (Sales): I'd rather be honest with you than spin it. DataViz Pro has stronger out-of-the-box statistical modelling, native R and Python integration for data science workflows. If your team does a lot of, uh, custom statistical work beyond standard analytics, that's worth noting.
Marcus (Client): We don't really do custom statistical modelling, so that's not a factor for us. We're more, like, operational reporting and CRM analytics.
Ryan (Sales): Then the comparison is very much in our favour for your use case. Faster refresh, better geospatial, stronger security certification, embedded analytics without, um, an extra licence.
Linda (CFO): On the embedded analytics point, DataViz Pro told us their embedded analytics require a separate Embed licence at, like, an additional per-viewer cost.
Ryan (Sales): That's correct for DataViz Pro. With us, embedded analytics via iFrame or the Embed SDK is included in the Business plan. No separate licence.
Marcus (Client): We want to embed dashboards into our store manager portal. If DataViz Pro charges per viewer there and we have, um, 85 store managers, that could add up fast.
Ryan (Sales): Exactly, and when you model that additional cost into the DataViz Pro total it often, like, closes or reverses the apparent price gap between us.
Linda (CFO): What about hidden fees on your side? Implementation, setup, anything like that?
Ryan (Sales): No setup fees for cloud-hosted on any plan. Included at no extra cost: tenant provisioning, SSO configuration, standard data migration up to 50 thousand records, and a, uh, two-hour onboarding session with a Customer Success Manager.
Ryan (Sales): The only fees that apply beyond the subscription are if you need complex custom integrations, large data migrations over 50 thousand records, or on-site training. Those are scoped separately and everything is, um, disclosed in the Order Form before you sign.
Linda (CFO): Good. I don't like surprises. What about the contract terms? Annual commitment only or is monthly available?
Ryan (Sales): Both are available. Annual billing is 45 dollars per user per month. Monthly billing is 54 dollars per user per month. So the annual saving is about, uh, 15 percent.
Linda (CFO): And if we grow headcount during the year, how are new users priced?
Ryan (Sales): New users added mid-year on an annual contract are billed pro-rata for the remaining months of the term. So if you add 20 users in month six, you pay, um, for 20 users for the remaining six months.
Marcus (Client): That's reasonable. And what's the termination clause? We've been burned before by a vendor with, like, very aggressive auto-renewal terms.
Ryan (Sales): Annual contracts require 60 days notice before the renewal date to avoid auto-renewal. If you don't give notice within that window, it rolls for another 12 months at the then-current pricing. Multi-year contracts are 90 days.
Linda (CFO): 60 days is standard. I've seen 30 days which is too short and 120 which is unreasonable, so that works.
Marcus (Client): Can we do a trial or pilot before committing to a full 12-month contract?
Ryan (Sales): We have a 14-day free trial on the Professional plan feature set, no credit card required. Up to five users, one gigabyte storage. Or for a more meaningful evaluation, we can run a formal 30-day Proof of Concept with a dedicated Solutions Engineer, your actual use cases, and up to ten pilot users.
Linda (CFO): The 30-day PoC sounds more substantive. Is that free?
Ryan (Sales): Completely free, dedicated Solutions Engineer included. And we, uh, define success criteria at the start so you have a clear benchmark for the decision.
Linda (CFO): That's a reasonable structure. Okay Marcus, I think we have enough to take back to the team. Ryan, can you send over, um, a written commercial proposal and the FreshMart reference contact?
Ryan (Sales): Will do. I'll get both out by tomorrow morning along with the TCO comparison worksheet so you can, like, model your own numbers. Thank you both, really appreciate the time.
Marcus (Client): Thanks Ryan. This was, um, more useful than the DataViz Pro call honestly. Talk soon.